Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning in today's vitriol we're talking about gradient
descent what we learned previously was that in order for a neural network to learn what needs to happen
is back propagation.
And that is when the error the difference or the sum of squared differences between the y hat and Y
is back propagated through the neural network and the weights are adjusted accordingly.
So we saw that and today we're going to learn exactly how these weights are adjusted.
So let's have a look.
This is our very simple version of a neural network a perception or a single their feet forward a neural
network.
And what we can see here is this whole process in action where we've got some input value then we've
got to wait.
Then a activation function is applied.
We have we get white hats and then we compare it to the actual value recalculate the cost function.
So how can we minimize the cost function.
What can we do about it.
Well one approach to do it is a brute force approach where we just take all lots of different possible
weights and look at them and see which one works best.
And what we do is for instance would try out for let's say for example a thousand weights and we'd try
them out we'd get something like this for the cost function and this is a chart of on the y axis you
have cost function or the vertical axis and the horizontal axis you have y had and because you can see
the formulas y had minus Y squared.
This is what the cost function would look something like that and basically you'd find the best one
is over here.
So very simple very intuitive approach.
Why not do this brute force method why not just try out a thousand different costs for those thousand
different parameters or inputs for weights and see which one works the best you'll find the best one
that way.
Well if you have just one way to optimize this might work but as you increase the number of weights
increase the number of synopses in your network you have to face the curse of dimensionality.
And so what is the course of dimensionality.
The best way to describe this or explain it is to just look at a practical example.
So remember this example we had when we were talking about how neural networks actually work where we
were building or running a neural network for a full property valuation.
So this is what it looked like when it was trained up already.
Well when it's not trained before it's train before we know which.
What are the weights.
The actual neural network looks like this.
Right.
Because we have all these different possible synopses and we still have to train up the weights.
And here we have a total of twenty five weight so four times five at the start plus five more from the
hinterland it's about Butler twenty five weights total.
And let's see how we could possibly brute force twenty five ways this is a very simple neural network
right here very simple just one hidden layer.
And how could we brute force our way through a neural network of this size.
Well let's do some simple mathematical calculations.
We have 25 weights.
So that means if we have a thousand combinations that are going to test out for every weight the total
number of combinations is a thousand to the power of twenty five or a thousand or tend to oppose any
five different combinations.
Now let's see how sun the way to table light the world's fastest supercomputer as of June 2016.
What how would it approach is probably right.
So some way tie to light it looks like this is a whole huge building pretty much for this one supercomputer
and it got the Guinness World Records for being the fastest supercomputer.
Right now it is the fastest supercomputer in the world and Sunday title light can operate at a speed
of 93 Petter flops a flop stands for floating operation per second so it can do ninety three to the
power times tend to the power of 15 floating operations per second.
That's how quick it is in comparison.
Average computers right now.
Did you like just over several giga flops and so on so like kind of those ranges way less than tie Sunday.
Tail light so suddenly tail light is in the forefront of technology and let's say hypothetically that
it can do one on one test one combination for our neural network in one floppy disk and one floating
operation that is not possible that is not practical because you need multiple floating operations to
test out a single weight in your neural network but even let's let's give it a head start let's say
that it can do it in a ideal world it can do that in one floating operation it can do one test per one
floating operation that means it will still require 10 to the power of five divide by ninety three times
tens of our 15 seconds to come to run all of those tests to brute force through that network.
So that means one or approximate center power of 58 seconds and that is the same as 10 to the power
of 50 years.
That is a huge number that is longer than the universe has existed.
And that is definitely not going to simply this number is so huge is just definitely not going to work
for us at all in our optimization.
So there we go.
This is a no no even on the world's fastest supercomputer.
Some way tail light.
So we have to come up with a different approach how are we going to find the optimal weight by the way
this our neural network was very simple what about if the neural networks looks like something like
this or even greater than that then yeah it's just not going to happen at all ever.
So the method we're going to be looking at is called gradient descent and you may have heard of it already.
If not we will find out what it is right now.
So there is our cost function and now we're going to see how we can foster for come of a faster way
to find the best option so let's say we start somewhere you gotta start somewhere.
So we start over there.
And from that point in the top left what we're going to do is we're going to look at the angle of our
cost function.
At that point so we're just going to basically that's what's called gradient because you have to differentiate.
We're not going to look at the mathematical equations are we will provide some tips on additional reading
at the end of the next lecture.
But basically you just need to differentiate.
Find out what the slope is in that specific point and find out if the slope is positive or negative.
If the if the slope is negative like in this case means that you're going downhill.
So to the right is downhill to the left is uphill and from there it means you need to go right.
Basically you need to go downhill and that's what we're going to do.
Room takes a step right.
The ball rolls down again.
Same thing you calculate the slope the standard slope is positive meaning rate as uphill left as downhill
and you need to go left and you roll the ball down.
And again you calculate the slope and you're all the ball right.
There you go.
So that's how you find.
In simple terms that's how you find the best weights the best situation that minimizes your cost function.
Of course it's not going to be like a ball rolling is going to be a very zigzag type of approach but
it's easier to remember error kind of it's is more fun to look at it as a ball rolling but in reality
yes you just is going to be like a step by step approach is going to be a zigzag type of method.
Yeah.
And also there's there's lots of other elements to it so there's things like for instance why.
Like why does it go down why does it not to go way over the line so it could have jumped out of this
gone upwards instead of downwards and things like that.
So there are parameters that you can tweak.
And again we will mention where you can find out more on that and plus we'll have this in the practical
application but in the simplest intuitive approach this is what is happening.
We are getting to the bottom by just understanding which way we need to go instead of brute forcing
through thousands and thousands and millions and billions and quite trillions of combinations.
We can just simply every time have a look at where is where.
Which way is it sloping so like Europe.
Imagine you're standing on a hill.
Which way does it feel that it's going downwards.
And whichever way it is going downwards you just keep walking that way you like take 50 steps that way
and then you assess again.
Okay.
Which way is it going downwards this way.
Now take 50 steps or less take 40 steps that way.
So it gets less and less and less as you get closer.
So here's an example of gradient descent applied in a two dimensional space.
So that was a one dimensional example.
Here we have a two dimensional space for the gradient descent.
As you can see it's getting closer to the minimum.
And it's also called gradient descent because you're descending into the minimum of the cost function.
And finally here's the gradient descent applied in three dimensions.
This is what it looks like.
If you projected onto two dimensions you can see it's zigzagging its way into the minimum.
So there we go.
That was gradient descent in next drill we'll talk about stochastic gradient descent is a continuation
of this material and I look forward to seeing you there until next time.
Enjoy deep learning.